[ADD] Time Off: Adding new doc (#7301)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/time_off.rst

  attachments of documents, this field appears. Click the :guilabel:`Attach File` button and a file
  explorer window appears. Navigate to the file(s) to attach, then click the :guilabel:`Open`
  button. The files then appear on the time off request form. Multiple documents can be attached.

When the form is complete, click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save the information and submit the
request.

.. image:: time_off/time-off-request.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A time off request form filled out for an employee home sick for two days with the flu.

.. _time_off/request-allocation:

Request allocation
==================

If an employee has used all their time off, or is going to run out of time off, they can request
an allocation for additional time. Allocations can be requested in one of two ways, either from the
:ref:`dashboard <time_off/dashboard>` or the :guilabel:`My Allocations` view.

To access the dashboard, navigate to the :menuselection:`Time Off application --> My Time Off -->
Dashboard`. This is also the default view for the *Time Off* application.

To access :guilabel:`My Allocations`, navigate to the :menuselection:`Time Off application --> My

> Time Off --> My Allocations`. This presents a list view of all the allocations for the employee.

Author: I combined the paragraph but not the directions, because I wanted to have the 'default view' line not be looked over and make sense. I also like to keep all the directions spelled out- even if it seems like overkill, so no one gets confused.

To approve an allocation request, click :guilabel:`✔ Validate` at the end of the line, to refuse a
request, click :guilabel:`X Refuse`.

.. image:: time_off/allocations.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Allocations with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

If more details are needed, click anywhere on the allocation request line (except for
:guilabel:`✔ Validate` and :guilabel:`X Refuse`) to view the request in detail. The allocation
request form loads. Depending on the rights of the user, changes can be made. To modify the request,
click the :guilabel:`Edit` button, make any desired changes, then click :guilabel:`Save`. It is also
possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Validate` button to
approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

Approve time off
----------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
Approvals --> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

> The default filters that are configured to be in place when navigating to the :guilabel:`Time Off`
> list are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`My Team`, :guilabel:`Active Employee`, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default filters in the :guilabel:`Time Off`
list are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`My Team`, :guilabel:`Active Employee`, and
```

:guilabel:`Active Time Off`. This presents only time off requests that need to be approved for
current employees on the users team, for requests that are active and not in a draft mode.

> The left side of the screen has various grouping options to quickly narrow down the presented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented
```

.. image:: time_off/time-off-requests.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off requests with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

If more details are needed, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for :guilabel:`👍
Approve` and :guilabel:`X Refuse`) to view the request in detail. The time off request form loads.
Depending on the rights of the user, changes can be made. To modify the request, click the
:guilabel:`Edit` button, make any desired changes, then click :guilabel:`Save`. It is also possible
to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Approve` button to approve, or
the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

My time off
===========

The :guilabel:`My Time Off` section of the *Time Off* application contains the time off dashboard,
as well as the users time off requests and allocations.

.. _time_off/dashboard:

Dashboard
---------

All users have access to the time off dashboard, which is the default view in the *Time Off*
application. The dashboard can also be accessed at any point in the application by navigating to
:menuselection:`Time Off application --> My Time Off --> Dashboard`.

> The current year is displayed, with all twelve months visible on the dashboard. The current day is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current year is displayed, and the current day is
```

allocation requests can also be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`Allocation Request`
button at the top of the dashboard to request more time off, and a new :ref:`allocation form
<time_off/request-allocation>` appears form appears.

.. image:: time_off/dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off dashboard view with the legend, time off summaries, and view buttons highlighted.

My time off
-----------

To view a list of all the users time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application
--> My Time Off --> My Time Off`. All time off requests appear in a list view, both past and
present. Other than the employee's name, the list includes the following information for each
request: the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Start Date`,
:guilabel:`End Date`, :guilabel:`Duration`, and the :guilabel:`Status`. A new time off request can
be made from this view. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to :ref:`request time off
<time_off/request-time-off>`.

My allocations
--------------

To view a list of all the users allocations, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->

> My Time Off --> My Allocations`. All allocations awarded to and requested appear in a list view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My Time Off --> My Allocations`. All available and requested allocations appear in a list view.
```

  :guilabel:`Yes`. If the time off can be requested without time off being previously allocated,
  select :guilabel:`No Limit`. if :guilabel:`No Limit` is selected, the following options do not
  appear on the form.
- :guilabel:`Employee Requests`: select :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` if the employee is
  able to request more time off than was allocated. For example, if ten (10) days are allocated to
  the employee for this particular type of time off, and this option is enabled, the employee may
  submit a request for more than ten (10) days. If employees should **not** be able to make
  requests for more time off than what was allocated, select the :guilabel:`Not Allowed` option.
- :guilabel:`Approval`: select the type of approval(s) required for the allocation of this
  particular type of time off. :guilabel:`No validation needed` indicates that no approvals are
  required. :guilabel:`Approved by Time Off Officer` indicates the :ref:`Time Off Officer
  <time_off/time-off-officer>` set on this form must approve the allocation. :guilabel:`Set by Time
  Off Officer` indicates that the :ref:`Time Off Officer <time_off/time-off-officer>` set on this

>   form must allocate the time off.

Author: I disagree- the section 'ALLOCATION REQUESTS' has 3 items beneath it- each of those 3 items are in a separate bullet, which is how the rest of the doc is formatted. So this is accurate in terms of how the rest of the doc is handled.

Payroll section
***************

- :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`: if this time off type should create
  :doc:`../hr/payroll/work_entries` in the *Payroll* application, select the type of work entry
  created from the drop-down list.

> 

Author: the work entries doc explains all of this thoroughly, which is why I linked it in here. I think that is sufficient, since it's based on the work entries created in payroll.

Timesheets section
******************

The :guilabel:`Timesheets` section only appears if the user is in developer mode. Refer to the
:doc:`../general/developer_mode` document for details on how to access the developer mode. When an
employee takes time off and is also using timesheets, Odoo creates entries in the timesheet for the
time off. This section defines how they are entered.

- :guilabel:`Project`: select the project that the time off type entries appear in from the
  drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Task`: select the task that appears in the timesheet for this time off type. Options
  are :guilabel:`Time Off`, :guilabel:`Meeting`, or :guilabel:`Training`.

Display Options section
***********************

- :guilabel:`Color`: select a color to be used in the *Time Off* application dashboard.
- :guilabel:`Cover Image`: select an icon to be used in the *Time Off* application dashboard.

.. note::
   The only required fields on the time off type form is the name of the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`,

>    and the :guilabel:`Responsible Time Off Officer`.

Author: You are correct- those are auto-filled, and I could not delete them in order to test this, and when I tried it only gave me what i had in here. I'll add these- nice catch, thank you!

    the drop-down menu, select the start and end time for the time off request.

- :guilabel:`Duration`: this field updates automatically once the :guilabel:`Date` section is
  completed. If the :guilabel:`Date` section is modified, this section automatically updates to
  reflect the total time off requested. This field is in either hours or days, depending on the
  :guilabel:`Date` selections.
- :guilabel:`Description`: enter a description for the time off request. This should include any
  details that the manager and approvers need in order to approve the request.
- :guilabel:`Supporting Document`: if the :guilabel:`Time Off Type` selected allows for the
  attachments of documents, this field appears. Click the :guilabel:`Attach File` button and a file
  explorer window appears. Navigate to the file(s) to attach, then click the :guilabel:`Open`
  button. The files then appear on the time off request form. Multiple documents can be attached.

When the form is complete, click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save the information and submit the
request.

.. image:: time_off/time-off-request.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: A time off request form filled out for an employee home sick for two days with the flu.

Reviewer 2: No red call-outs on these images

Author: Since the entire form is explained above, I did not place any call-outs since it would all be called out.

request.

.. image:: time_off/allocation-request.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An allocation request form filled out for an employee requesting an additional week of
         sick time.

Approvals
=========

Most requests for both time off and allocations need to go through the approval process prior to the
time off being allocated and then granted to an employee. Requests either need one or two approvals,
depending on how the specific type of time off type is configured.

Only users who can approve allocation and time of requests will have the :guilabel:`Approvals`
section visible in the *Time Off* application.

Approve allocations
-------------------

To view allocations that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
Approvals --> Allocations`. The only allocations visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

The default filters that are configured to be in place when navigating to the
:guilabel:`Allocations` list are :guilabel:`My Team` and :guilabel:`Active Employee`. This presents

> only employees on the users team (who they manage) and active employees. Inactive users are not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
only employees on the user's team (who they manage) and active employees. Inactive users are not
```

If more details are needed, click anywhere on the allocation request line (except for :guilabel:`✔
Validate` and :guilabel:`X Refuse`) to view the request in detail. The allocation request form
loads. Depending on the rights of the user, changes can be made. To modify the request, click the
:guilabel:`Edit` button, make any desired changes, then click :guilabel:`Save`. It is also possible
to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Validate` button to approve,
or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

.. _time_off/approve-time-off:

Approve time off
----------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
Approvals --> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

The default filters in the :guilabel:`Time Off` list are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`My
Team`, :guilabel:`Active Employee`, and :guilabel:`Active Time Off`. This presents only time off

> requests that need to be approved for current employees on the users team, for requests that are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requests that need to be approved for current employees on the user's team, for requests that are
```

appear. :guilabel:`Approved` requests are highlighted in green, :guilabel:`To Submit` (drafts)
requests are highlighted in blue, and the :guilabel:`Refused` requests are highlighted in gray.

To approve a time off request, click :guilabel:`👍 Approve` at the end of the line, to refuse a
request, click :guilabel:`X Refuse`.

.. image:: time_off/time-off-requests.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off requests with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

If more details are needed, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for :guilabel:`👍
Approve` and :guilabel:`X Refuse`) to load the time off request form. Depending on the rights of the
user, changes can be made. To modify the request, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button, make any
desired changes, then click :guilabel:`Save`. It is also possible to approve or refuse the request
from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Approve` button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to
refuse the request.

My time off
===========

The :guilabel:`My Time Off` section of the *Time Off* application contains the time off dashboard,

> as well as the users time off requests and allocations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as well as the user's time off requests and allocations.
```

on the desired button at the top. Options are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`,
or :guilabel:`Year` (the default). To change the presented dates, click the left and right arrows on
either side of the :guilabel:`Today` button. The calendar view adjusts in increments of the
presented view. For example, if :guilabel:`Week` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one
week. To change the view at any point to a view that includes the current date, click the
:guilabel:`Today` button.

Above the calendar view is a summary of the users time off balances. Every time off type that has
been allocated appears in its own summary box. Each summary lists the type of time off, the
corresponding icon, the current available balance (in hours or days), and an expiration date (if
applicable). To view more details on the specific time off, click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)`
after the line `Hours (or Days) Available`. A pop up appears listing the total time allocated, the
approved time off, the planned time off, and the total ending balance with those numbers factored
in. The time off balance labeled as :guilabel:`Left` is what is displayed next to the icon in the

> summary. Click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)` again to close the pop-up.

Reviewer 2: Not seeing the question mark-- 15 runbot not there

Author: It's in the 15.2 runbot, that's where I got it from.

The legend on the right side of the calendar view displays the various time off types, with their
corresponding colors. The status of the time off requests are shown as well. Time off that has been
validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the Time Off Types part of the
legend). Time off requests that still needs to be approved appear with white stripes in the color.
Refused time off requests have a colored line through the dates.

New time off requests can be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New Time Off` button at
the top of the dashboard, and a new :ref:`time off form <time_off/request-time-off>` appears. New
allocation requests can also be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`Allocation Request`
button at the top of the dashboard to request more time off, and a new :ref:`allocation form
<time_off/request-allocation>` appears form appears.

.. image:: time_off/dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off dashboard view with the legend, time off summaries, and view buttons highlighted.

My time off
-----------

> To view a list of all the users time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view a list of all the user's time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application
```

--> My Time Off --> My Time Off`. All time off requests appear in a list view, both past and

> present. Other than the employee's name, the list includes the following information for each

Reviewer 2: I don't see the employees name

Author: Appears in 15.2- which I used for this doc.

request: the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Start Date`,
:guilabel:`End Date`, :guilabel:`Duration`, and the :guilabel:`Status`. A new time off request can
be made from this view. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to :ref:`request time off
<time_off/request-time-off>`.

My allocations
--------------

To view a list of all the users allocations, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
My Time Off --> My Allocations`. All allocations and requested allocations appear in a list view.
The information presented includes: the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`,
:guilabel:`Duration`, :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, and the :guilabel:`Status`. A new allocation
request can be made from this view. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to :ref:`request an
allocation <time_off/request-allocation>`.

Overview
========

To view a color-coded schedule of both the user's time off, and/or the team managed by them,
navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application --> Overview`. This presents a calendar with the
default filter of :guilabel:`My Team`, in a month view. To change the time period displayed, click

> on either the :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, or :guilabel:`Year` buttons to present the calendar

Reviewer 2: also month

Author: Since month is the default and is already selected, I didn't include it in the list, but I can definitely add it.

color-coded. The employee's color is selected at random and does not correspond to the type of time
off they requested. The status of the time of is represented by the color of the request either
appearing solid (:guilabel:`Validated`) or striped (:guilabel:`To Approve`). The number of days or
hours requested is written on the request (if there is enough space). At the bottom of the calendar,
a bar graph shows how many people are projected to be out on any given day. The number on the bar
represents the number of employees out for those highlighted days.

Hover over a time off entry to view the details for the specific time off entry. The total number of
hours or days are listed, along with the start and end time of the time off.

.. image:: time_off/overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Overview of the user's team, with time off requests shown.

.. _time_off/reporting:

Reporting
=========

The reporting feature allows users to view time off for their team, either by employee or type of
time off. This allows users to see which employees are taking time off, how much time off they are
taking, and what types.

> by Employee

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By employee
```

-----------

To view a report of employee time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
Reporting --> by Employee`. The default report is a stacked bar chart with the filters of
:guilabel:`Active Employee` and :guilabel:`Type` in place. Each employee is displayed in their own
column, with the bar displaying how many days of each type of time off type they requested. The
report can be displayed in other ways. Click the various options at the top of the report to view
the data differently. The graph options are :guilabel:`Bar Chart`, :guilabel:`Line Chart`, or
:guilabel:`Pie Chart`. The :guilabel:`Bar Chart` includes an option to present the data
:guilabel:`Stacked`. Both the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` and :guilabel:`Line Chart` have options to
present the data in either :guilabel:`Descending` or :guilabel:`Ascending` order.

.. image:: time_off/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report of time off, shown by each employee in a stacked bar chart.

> by Type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By type
```

.. note::
   Be advised, only users with specific access rights can see all aspects of the *Time Off*
   application. All users can access the :guilabel:`My Time Off` and :guilabel:`Overview` sections
   of the *Time Off* application. All other sections require specific access rights. To better
   understand how access rights affect the *Time Off* application, refer to the
   :doc:`/applications/hr/employees/new_employee` document, specifically the section about
   configuring the work information tab.

Configuration
=============

In order to allocate time off to employees, and for employees to request and use their time off, the
various time off types must first be configured, then allocated to employees (if allocation is
required).

.. _time_off/time-off-types:

Time off types
--------------

To view the currently configured time off types, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application
--> Configuration --> Time Off Types`. The time off types are presented in a list view. The *Time
Off* application comes with four types of time off pre-configured: :guilabel:`Paid Time Off`,
:guilabel:`Sick Time Off`, :guilabel:`Unpaid`, and :guilabel:`Compensatory Days`. Any of these may

> be modified to suit the needs of the businesses, or can be used as-is.

Author: If you use this link, you can create a test DB in 15.0 and see the defaults without the Runbot's demo data getting in the way. If you make a DB here, there are 4 default time off types I see:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/84bd1457-e3e0-4ef6-af79-aa7de6c947fe)

 https://www.odoo.com/trial?hosting=am60a.odoo.com

Most countries have public or national holidays, and some companies may have specific days they
are closed and give extra days as holidays. It is important to configure these days in Odoo, so that
employees are aware of the days they have off, and do not request time off on days that are already
set as a public holiday (non-working days).

Create a new public holiday
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a public holiday, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application --> Configuration -->
Public Holidays`. All currently configured public holidays appear in a list view. Click the
:guilabel:`Create` button and a new line appears at the bottom of the list. Enter the following
information:

- :guilabel:`Name`: enter the name of the holiday.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company database, the current company populates this field by
  default. It is not possible to edit this field.
- :guilabel:`Start Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  starts. By default, this field is configured for the current date, with a time of 8:00:00 (8 AM).
- :guilabel:`End Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday

>   ends. By default, this field is configured for the current date, with a time of 17:00:00 (5 PM).

Author: And for me, now, it's showing 2 and 11 =D. I am checking with the experts as to how they are getting these hours, since it doesn't seem to be based off of the company location, local time, etc.

   :align: center
   :alt: An allocation request form filled out for an employee requesting an additional week of
         sick time.

Approvals
=========

Most requests for both time off and allocations need to go through the approval process prior to the
time off being allocated and then granted to an employee. Requests either need one or two approvals,
depending on how the specific type of time off type is configured.

Only users who can approve allocation and time of requests will have the :guilabel:`Approvals`
section visible in the *Time Off* application.

Approve allocations
-------------------

To view allocations that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
Approvals --> Allocations`. The only allocations visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

The default filters that are configured to be in place when navigating to the
:guilabel:`Allocations` list are :guilabel:`My Team` and :guilabel:`Active Employee`. This presents
only employees on the user's team (who they manage) and active employees. Inactive users are not
shown.

> The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented allocation
> requests. The options are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`To Submit`, :guilabel:`Refused`, and
> :guilabel:`Approved`. To view all allocation requests, click :guilabel:`All`. It is also possible to
> display allocation requests by department. Click on the department to present only allocations for
> that specific department.

Reviewer 3: Adding the list headings for clarity rather than only relying on stating it's location on the screen.
```suggestion
The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented allocation
requests by :guilabel:`STATUS`. The options are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`To Submit`,
:guilabel:`Refused`, and :guilabel:`Approved`. To view all allocation requests, click
:guilabel:`All`. It is also possible to display allocation requests by :guilabel:`DEPARTMENT`.
Click on the department to present only allocations for that specific department.
```

.. note::

>    The groupings on the left side will only present allocation requests that fall under the default
>    filters of :guilabel:`My Team` and :guilabel:`Active Employee`. Only the statuses for allocation
>    requests that fall under those filters are presented on the left side. For example if there are
>    no requests with a status of :guilabel:`To Submit`, that status option does not appear in the
>    left hand side.
> 
>    All departments for the user's employees appear in the list. If there are no allocation requests
>    that fall under that department matching the pre-configured filters, then the list is blank. It
>    is always possible to remove any of the pre-configured filters. Click the X on the specific
>    filter to remove it.

Reviewer 3: Adding list headings
```suggestion
   The groupings in the :guilabel:`STATUS` list on the left side only present allocation requests
   that fall under the default filters of :guilabel:`My Team` and :guilabel:`Active Employee`. Only
   the statuses for allocation requests that fall under those filters are presented on the left
   side. For example if there are no requests with a status of :guilabel:`To Submit`, that status
   option does not appear in the left hand side.

   All departments for the user's employees appear in the :guilabel:`DEPARTMENT` list. If there are
   no allocation requests that fall under that department matching the pre-configured filters, then
   the list is blank. It is always possible to remove any of the pre-configured filters. Click the
   :guilabel:`X (remove)` icon on the specific filter to remove it.
```

Validate` and :guilabel:`X Refuse`) to view the request in detail. The allocation request form
loads. Depending on the rights of the user, changes can be made. To modify the request, click the
:guilabel:`Edit` button, make any desired changes, then click :guilabel:`Save`. It is also possible
to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Validate` button to approve,
or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

.. _time_off/approve-time-off:

Approve time off
----------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
Approvals --> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

The default filters in the :guilabel:`Time Off` list are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`My
Team`, :guilabel:`Active Employee`, and :guilabel:`Active Time Off`. This presents only time off
requests that need to be approved for current employees on the user's team, for requests that are
active and not in a draft mode.

> The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented time off
> requests. Since only time off requests that need to be approved are shown, the only status options
> are :guilabel:`All` and :guilabel:`To Approve`. To view requests with other statuses, first remove
> the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter. Click the X on the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter to remove it.
> 
> To display time off requests for specific departments, click on the department on the left hand
> side. Only requests within the selected department will be presented.

Reviewer 3: Adding list headings here too, as well as removing the future tense
```suggestion
The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented time off
requests. Since only time off requests that need to be approved are shown, the only
:guilabel:`STATUS` options are :guilabel:`All` and :guilabel:`To Approve`. To view requests with
other statuses, first remove the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter. Click the :guilabel:`X (remove)`
icon on the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter to remove it.

To display time off requests for specific departments, click on the department on the left hand
side in the :guilabel:`DEPARTMENT` list. Only requests within the selected department are
presented.
```

> The status column displays the status of each request, with the status highlighted in a specific
> color. The :guilabel:`To Approve` requests are highlighted in yellow, and are the only ones that
> appear in the list by default. If the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter is removed, then all statuses
> appear. :guilabel:`Approved` requests are highlighted in green, :guilabel:`To Submit` (drafts)
> requests are highlighted in blue, and the :guilabel:`Refused` requests are highlighted in gray.

Reviewer 3: Text on the UI within the active instruction should be in a guilabel
```suggestion
The :guilabel:`STATUS` column displays the status of each request, with the status highlighted in a
specific color. The :guilabel:`To Approve` requests are highlighted in yellow, and are the only
ones that appear in the list by default. If the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter is removed, then all
statuses appear. :guilabel:`Approved` requests are highlighted in green, :guilabel:`To Submit`
(drafts) requests are highlighted in blue, and the :guilabel:`Refused` requests are highlighted in
gray.
```

To approve a time off request, click :guilabel:`👍 Approve` at the end of the line, to refuse a
request, click :guilabel:`X Refuse`.

.. image:: time_off/time-off-requests.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off requests with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

> If more details are needed, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for :guilabel:`👍
> Approve` and :guilabel:`X Refuse`) to load the time off request form. Depending on the rights of the
> user, changes can be made. To modify the request, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button, make any
> desired changes, then click :guilabel:`Save`. It is also possible to approve or refuse the request
> from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Approve` button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to
> refuse the request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If more details are needed, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for :guilabel:`👍
Approve` and :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse`) to load the time off request form. Depending on the rights of the
user, changes can be made.

To modify the request, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button, make any desired changes, then click
:guilabel:`Save`.

It is also possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Approve`
button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.
```

> My time off

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
My Time Off
```

Reviewer 4: figured since you've capitalized actual sections/pages like this in headers before, I figured this could follow suit 👍

Reviewer 4: whichever route you choose, just make sure to keep everything uniform

Author: I'll go with all lower case, since the majority already is.

===========

The :guilabel:`My Time Off` section of the *Time Off* application contains the time off dashboard,
as well as the user's time off requests and allocations.

.. _time_off/dashboard:

Dashboard
---------

> All users have access to the time off dashboard, which is the default view in the *Time Off*
> application. The dashboard can also be accessed at any point in the application by navigating to
> :menuselection:`Time Off application --> My Time Off --> Dashboard`.
> 
> The current year is displayed, and the current day is highlighted in red. To change the view, click
> on the desired button at the top. Options are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`,
> or :guilabel:`Year` (the default). To change the presented dates, click the left and right arrows on
> either side of the :guilabel:`Today` button. The calendar view adjusts in increments of the
> presented view. For example, if :guilabel:`Week` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one
> week. To change the view at any point to a view that includes the current date, click the
> :guilabel:`Today` button.
> 
> Above the calendar view is a summary of the users time off balances. Every time off type that has
> been allocated appears in its own summary box. Each summary lists the type of time off, the
> corresponding icon, the current available balance (in hours or days), and an expiration date (if
> applicable). To view more details on the specific time off, click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All users have access to the time off dashboard, which is the default view in the *Time Off*
application. The dashboard can also be accessed at any point in the application by navigating to
:menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time Off --> Dashboard`.

The current year is displayed, and the current day is highlighted in red.

To change the view, click on the desired button at the top. The options are: :guilabel:`Day`,
:guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, or :guilabel:`Year` (the default).

To change the presented dates, click the left and right arrows on either side of the
:guilabel:`Today` button. The calendar view adjusts in increments of the presented view.

For example, if :guilabel:`Week` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one week.

To change the view at any point to a view that includes the current date, click the
:guilabel:`Today` button.

Above the calendar view is a summary of the users time off balances. Every time off type that has
been allocated appears in its own summary box. Each summary lists the type of time off, the
corresponding icon, the current available balance (in hours or days), and an expiration date (if
applicable).
```

> after the line `Hours (or Days) Available`. A pop up appears listing the total time allocated, the
> approved time off, the planned time off, and the total ending balance with those numbers factored
> in. The time off balance labeled as :guilabel:`Left` is what is displayed next to the icon in the
> summary. Click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)` again to close the pop-up.

Reviewer 3: This text is UI text so it needs a guilabel. \`this\` pre text is for writing a technical term or a specific value to insert/modify
```suggestion
after the line :guilabel:`Hours Available` or :guilabel:`Days Available`. A pop up appears listing
the total time allocated, the approved time off, the planned time off, and the total ending balance
with those numbers factored in. The time off balance labeled as :guilabel:`Left` is what is
displayed next to the icon in the summary. Click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)` again to close
the pop-up.
```

> summary. Click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)` again to close the pop-up.

Reviewer 4: I'm actually not seeing any such question mark...is this an aspect that requires Developer Mode, perhaps? Either way, I think it would be best to double-check if it's around in all 15.0 dbs, because the runbot I'm using currently does offer this functionality

Author: You are correct- it only appears in the 15.2 docs. I'll remove this!

> The legend on the right side of the calendar view displays the various time off types, with their
> corresponding colors. The status of the time off requests are shown as well. Time off that has been
> validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the Time Off Types part of the
> legend). Time off requests that still needs to be approved appear with white stripes in the color.
> Refused time off requests have a colored line through the dates.

Reviewer 3: UI text missing guilabels
```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Legend` on the right side of the calendar view displays the various time off types,
with their corresponding colors. The status of the time off requests are shown as well. Time off
that has been validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the :guilabel:`Time Off
Types` part of the legend). Time off requests that still needs to be approved appear with white
stripes in the color. Refused time off requests have a colored line through the dates.
```

> The legend on the right side of the calendar view displays the various time off types, with their
> corresponding colors. The status of the time off requests are shown as well. Time off that has been
> validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the Time Off Types part of the
> legend). Time off requests that still needs to be approved appear with white stripes in the color.
> Refused time off requests have a colored line through the dates.
> 
> New time off requests can be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New Time Off` button at
> the top of the dashboard, and a new :ref:`time off form <time_off/request-time-off>` appears. New
> allocation requests can also be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`Allocation Request`
> button at the top of the dashboard to request more time off, and a new :ref:`allocation form
> <time_off/request-allocation>` appears form appears.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The legend on the right side of the calendar view displays the various time off types, with their
corresponding colors. The status of the time off requests are shown, as well.

Time off that has been validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the Time Off
Types part of the legend). Time off requests that still need to be approved appear with white
stripes in the color. Refused time off requests have a colored line through the dates.

New time off requests can be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New Time Off` button at
the top of the dashboard, and a new :ref:`time off form <time_off/request-time-off>` appears.

New allocation requests can also be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`Allocation Request`
button at the top of the dashboard to request more time off, and a new :ref:`allocation form
<time_off/request-allocation>` appears form appears.
```

.. image:: time_off/dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off dashboard view with the legend, time off summaries, and view buttons highlighted.

> My time off

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
My Time Off
```
same reason for the capitalization as before. and, once again, feel free to take or leave, I was just trying to match the rest of your doc. whichever route you choose, just be sure to keep it uniform throughout. Thanks! 👍

-----------

> To view a list of all the user's time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application
> --> My Time Off --> My Time Off`. All time off requests appear in a list view, both past and
> present. Other than the employee's name, the list includes the following information for each
> request: the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Start Date`,
> :guilabel:`End Date`, :guilabel:`Duration`, and the :guilabel:`Status`. A new time off request can
> be made from this view. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to :ref:`request time off
> <time_off/request-time-off>`.
> 
> My allocations
> --------------
> 
> To view a list of all the users allocations, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
> My Time Off --> My Allocations`. All allocations and requested allocations appear in a list view.
> The information presented includes: the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`,
> :guilabel:`Duration`, :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, and the :guilabel:`Status`. A new allocation
> request can be made from this view. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to :ref:`request an
> allocation <time_off/request-allocation>`.
> 
> Overview
> ========
> 
> To view a color-coded schedule of both the user's time off, and/or the team managed by them,
> navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application --> Overview`. This presents a calendar with the
> default filter of :guilabel:`My Team`, in a month view. To change the time period displayed, click
> on either the :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, or :guilabel:`Year` buttons to
> present the calendar in that corresponding view.
> 
> Each team member is displayed on a line, and any time off they requested, regardless of the status
> (:guilabel:`Validated` or :guilabel:`To Approve`), appears on the calendar. Each employee is
> color-coded. The employee's color is selected at random and does not correspond to the type of time
> off they requested. The status of the time of is represented by the color of the request either
> appearing solid (:guilabel:`Validated`) or striped (:guilabel:`To Approve`). The number of days or
> hours requested is written on the request (if there is enough space). At the bottom of the calendar,
> a bar graph shows how many people are projected to be out on any given day. The number on the bar
> represents the number of employees out for those highlighted days.
> 
> Hover over a time off entry to view the details for the specific time off entry. The total number of
> hours or days are listed, along with the start and end time of the time off.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To view a list of all the user's time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My
Time Off --> My Time Off`. Here, all time off requests appear in a list view, both past and
present.

Other than the employee's name, the list includes the following information for each request: the
:guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Start Date`, :guilabel:`End Date`,
:guilabel:`Duration`, and the :guilabel:`Status`.

A new time off request can be made from this view, as well. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to
:ref:`request time off <time_off/request-time-off>`.

My Allocations
--------------

To view a list of all the users allocations, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time
Off --> My Allocations`. Here, all allocations and requested allocations appear in a list view.

The information presented includes: the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`, :guilabel:`Description`,
:guilabel:`Duration`, :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, and the :guilabel:`Status`.

A new allocation request can be made from this view, as well. Click the :guilabel:`Create` button to
:ref:`request an allocation <time_off/request-allocation>`.

Overview
========

To view a color-coded schedule of both the user's time off, and/or the team managed by them,
navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Overview`. This presents a calendar with the default
filter of :guilabel:`My Team`, in a month view.

To change the time period displayed, click on either the :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`,
:guilabel:`Month`, or :guilabel:`Year` buttons to present the calendar in that corresponding view.

Each team member is displayed on a line, and any time off they requested, regardless of the status
(:guilabel:`Validated` or :guilabel:`To Approve`), appears on the calendar.

Each employee is color-coded. The employee's color is selected at random, and does not correspond to
the type of time off they requested.

The status of the time off is represented by the color of the request, either appearing solid
(:guilabel:`Validated`) or striped (:guilabel:`To Approve`).

The number of days or hours requested is written on the request (if there is enough space).

At the bottom of the calendar, a bar graph shows how many people are projected to be out on any
given day. The number on the bar represents the number of employees out for those highlighted days.

Hover over a time off entry to view the details for the specific time off entry. The total number of
hours or days are listed, along with the start and end time of the time off.
```

.. image:: time_off/overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Overview of the user's team, with time off requests shown.

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: I think that the hierarchy of content in this doc warrants this _Overview_ section to be above the _Allocate time off_, _Request time off_, _Request allocation_, _Approvals_, _My time off_ sections since these sections are all H2s.

.. _time_off/reporting:

> Reporting
> =========
> 
> The reporting feature allows users to view time off for their team, either by employee or type of
> time off. This allows users to see which employees are taking time off, how much time off they are
> taking, and what types.
> 
> By employee
> -----------
> 
> To view a report of employee time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off application -->
> Reporting --> by Employee`. The default report is a stacked bar chart with the filters of
> :guilabel:`Active Employee` and :guilabel:`Type` in place. Each employee is displayed in their own
> column, with the bar displaying how many days of each type of time off type they requested. The
> report can be displayed in other ways. Click the various options at the top of the report to view
> the data differently. The graph options are :guilabel:`Bar Chart`, :guilabel:`Line Chart`, or
> :guilabel:`Pie Chart`. The :guilabel:`Bar Chart` includes an option to present the data
> :guilabel:`Stacked`. Both the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` and :guilabel:`Line Chart` have options to
> present the data in either :guilabel:`Descending` or :guilabel:`Ascending` order.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Reporting
=========

The reporting feature allows users to view time off for their team, either by employee or type of
time off. This allows users to see which employees are taking time off, how much time off they are
taking, and what time off types are being used.

By employee
-----------

To view a report of employee time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app -->
Reporting --> by Employee`.

The default report is a stacked bar chart with the filters of :guilabel:`Active Employee` and
:guilabel:`Type` in place.

Each employee is displayed in their own column, with the bar displaying how many days of each type
of time off type they requested.

The report can be displayed in other ways. Click the various options at the top of the report to
view the data differently.

The graph options are: :guilabel:`Bar Chart`, :guilabel:`Line Chart`, or :guilabel:`Pie Chart`. The
:guilabel:`Bar Chart` includes an option to present the data :guilabel:`Stacked`. Both the
:guilabel:`Bar Chart` and :guilabel:`Line Chart` have options to present the data in either:
:guilabel:`Descending` or :guilabel:`Ascending` order.
```

.. image:: time_off/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report of time off, shown by each employee in a stacked bar chart.

> By type
> -------
> 
> To view a list of approved time off, organized by time off type, navigate to :menuselection:`Time
> Off application --> Reporting --> by Type`. This shows each time off type in its own section. Click
> on a time off type to expand the list. Each request is listed, with the following information
> displayed: the :guilabel:`Employee`, :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Request Type`,
> :guilabel:`Start Date`, :guilabel:`End Date`, :guilabel:`Status`, and the :guilabel:`Description`.
> 
> The default filters in place for this report are :guilabel:`Approved Requests`, :guilabel:`Active
> Employee`, the :guilabel:`Current Year`, and the :guilabel:`Type`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By type
-------

To view a list of approved time off, organized by time off type, navigate to :menuselection:`Time
Off app --> Reporting --> by Type`. This shows each time off type in its own section.

Click on a time off type to expand the list. Each request is listed, with the following information
displayed: the :guilabel:`Employee`, :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Request Type`,
:guilabel:`Start Date`, :guilabel:`End Date`, :guilabel:`Status`, and the :guilabel:`Description`.

The default filters in place for this report are :guilabel:`Approved Requests`, :guilabel:`Active
Employee`, the :guilabel:`Current Year`, and the :guilabel:`Type`.
```

    time off request is automatically approved when requested.
  - :guilabel:`By Time Off Officer`: only the specified :ref:`Time Off Officer
    <time_off/time-off-officer>`, set on this form in the :guilabel:`Responsible Time Off Officer`
    field, is required to approve the time off request. This option is selected by default.
  - :guilabel:`By Employee's Approver`: only the employee's specified approver for time off, which
    is set on the *ork Information* tab on the :ref:`employee's form <employees/work-info-tab>`, is
    required to approve the time off request.
  - :guilabel:`By Employee's Approver and Time Off Officer`: both the employee's :ref:`specified
    time off approver<employees/work-info-tab>` and the :ref:`Time Off Officer
    <time_off/time-off-officer>` are required to approve the time off request.

.. _time_off/time-off-officer:

- :guilabel:`Responsible Time Off Officer`: select the person responsible for approving requests and
  allocations for this specific type of time off.
- :guilabel:`Take Time Off in`: select the format the time off is requested from the drop-down menu.

>   The options are:

Author: I changed this but I am still seeing weird spacing:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/e6ee8415-8602-4724-9e50-c50154f17a13)
I can't seem to get the space to appear after "are required to approve the time off request." so it matches the rest.

>   The options are:

Reviewer 3: Hey @larm-odoo, this spacing issue in the list items is caused by the stylesheet and not your RST!

I found a [past GitHub issue for Sphinx](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/7838) discussing this exact issue. 

Long story short, in Sphinx 3.0.3 list items used to have no spacing between them, and in Sphinx 3.1.0 spacing was added. Then we have a custom stylesheet that removes this spacing, but it doesnt seem to work correctly in some instances (like the one in your screenshot). 

I will open a [FIX] PR for this. What is important is that the RST is syntactically correct, which it is 😊.

  able to request more time off than was allocated.

  .. example::
     For example, if ten (10) days are allocated to the employee for this particular type of time
     off, and this option is enabled, the employee may submit a request for more than ten (10) days.

  If employees should **not** be able to make requests for more time off than what was allocated,
  select the :guilabel:`Not Allowed` option.

- :guilabel:`Approval`: select the type of approval(s) required for the allocation of this
  particular type of time off.

  - :guilabel:`No validation needed` indicates that no approvals are required.
  - :guilabel:`Approved by Time Off Officer` indicates the :ref:`Time Off Officer
    <time_off/time-off-officer>` set on this form must approve the allocation.
  - :guilabel:`Set by Time Off Officer` indicates that the :ref:`Time Off Officer
    <time_off/time-off-officer>` set on this form must allocate the time off.

Payroll section
***************

- :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`: if this time off type should create
  :doc:`../hr/payroll/work_entries` in the *Payroll* application, select the type of work entry

>   created from the drop-down list.

Author: Agreed- I was trying to keep the style consistent, but it's better as just a sentence.

  Then, select the type of time period using the drop-down menu in the second field. The options
  are: :guilabel:`day(s)`, :guilabel:`month(s)`, or :guilabel:`year(s)`.
- :guilabel:`Based on worked time`: tick this box if the accrual of time off is based on the
  time the employee has worked. If an employee takes time off that is *not* considered a worked day,
  Odoo will not count that day towards their accrual plan.
- :guilabel:`Rate (#) (time)`: enter the rate of time off that is accumulated. The first value is
  numerical; enter a number in the first field. Whole numbers are not necessary, any decimal value
  may be entered.

  Next, in the second field, select the type of time accrued using the drop-down menu. The options
  are either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours`.
- :guilabel:`Frequency (X)`: select how often the employee accrues the time off for this rule using
  the drop-down menu. The options are :guilabel:`Daily`, :guilabel:`Weekly`, :guilabel:`Twice a
  month`, :guilabel:`Monthly`, :guilabel:`Twice a year`, or :guilabel:`Yearly`.

  Depending on the selection, more fields appear to specify exactly when the accrual renews.

> .. example::
>    If the employee should accrue one vacation day for every week worked, the :guilabel:`Rate` is set
>    to `1`, and the :guilabel:`Frequency` entry is set to `Frequency (Weekly) on (Friday)`. Only the
>    :guilabel:`Frequency` and :guilabel:`Weekday` fields appear.
> 
>    If the employee should accrue ten (10)vacation days each year, and they receive these days every
>    year on the first of January, the :guilabel:`Rate` is set to `10`, and the :guilabel:`Frequency`
>    entry is set to `Frequency (Yearly) on the (1) of (January)`. The :guilabel:`Frequency`,
>    :guilabel:`Date`, and :guilabel:`Month` fields appear.

Reviewer 3: Indent example admonition to be inline with the bullet point it is an example for.
```suggestion
  .. example::
    If the employee should accrue one vacation day for every week worked, the :guilabel:`Rate` is
    set to `1`, and the :guilabel:`Frequency` entry is set to `Frequency (Weekly) on (Friday)`. Only
    the :guilabel:`Frequency` and :guilabel:`Weekday` fields appear.

    If the employee should accrue ten (10)vacation days each year, and they receive these days every
    year on the first of January, the :guilabel:`Rate` is set to `10`, and the :guilabel:`Frequency`
    entry is set to `Frequency (Yearly) on the (1) of (January)`. The :guilabel:`Frequency`,
    :guilabel:`Date`, and :guilabel:`Month` fields appear.
```

present employees on the user's team (who they manage) and active employees. Inactive users are not
shown.

The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented allocation
requests.

The options are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`To Submit`, :guilabel:`Refused`, and
:guilabel:`Approved`.

To view all allocation requests, click :guilabel:`All`.

It is also possible to display allocation requests by department. Click on the department to only
present allocations for that specific department.

.. note::
   The groupings on the left side only present allocation requests that fall under the default
   filters of :guilabel:`My Team` and :guilabel:`Active Employee`. Only the statuses for allocation
   requests that fall under those filters are presented on the left side.

   For example, if there are no requests with a status of :guilabel:`To Submit`, that status option
   does not appear in the left-hand side.

   All departments for the user's employees appear in the list. If there are no allocation requests
   that fall under that department matching the pre-configured filters, the list is blank.

>    It is always possible to remove any of the pre-configured filters, by clicking the :guilabel:`X
>    (remove)` icon on the specific filter to remove it.

Reviewer 3: Update for icon consistency, where `✖️` was used later in the doc
```suggestion
   It is always possible to remove any of the pre-configured filters, by clicking the :guilabel:`✖️
   (remove)`
```

button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

.. _time_off/approve-time-off:

Approve time off
----------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Approvals
--> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user has either
:guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time Off*
application.

The default filters in the :guilabel:`Time Off` list are :guilabel:`To Approve`, :guilabel:`My
Team`, :guilabel:`Active Employee`, and :guilabel:`Active Time Off`. This only presents time off
requests that need to be approved for current employees on the user's team, for requests that are
active and *not* in a draft mode.

The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented time off
requests. Since only time off requests that need to be approved are shown, the only status options
are :guilabel:`All` and :guilabel:`To Approve`.

To view requests with other statuses, first remove the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter, by clicking

> the :guilabel:`✖️` next to the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter to remove it.

Reviewer 3: Icon formatting
```suggestion
the :guilabel:`✖️ (remove)` icon next to the :guilabel:`To Approve` filter to remove it.
```
